hi Dominica here from easy sewing for
beginners calm in this video I'm going
to be showing you how to sew on a button
okay so just to start off just gonna
show you there's a couple of ways to sew
on a full hold button and you seen this
on this button here that's been sewn on
using kind of like two loops okay and
then on this shirt here you'll see that
they've turning on using a criss cross
with the thread so when I'm going to sew
on a button that's fallen off a shirt
just take a look at the other buttons
just to work out it's actually how I'm
going to sew it on this is the tip if
you've lost your button completely you
might find if you take a look inside
your clothing you might just find that
there's a spare button on the inside tag
and the seam so it's worth having a look
just in case okay let's get on to sewing
a button so you need is your clothing or
your fabric that you sign your button
onto we need your button and your needle
and thread and I've doubled my thread
over and knotted it at the end there so
to get started what I'm going to do is I
can pretty much see where the buttons
come off so that it that'll help me work
out where the button needs to go so
first thing I'm going to do is put a
couple of pins in to help create form
the shank help create the shank just
like so now the shank is the space in
between your fabric and your button and
just helps the other piece of fabric sit
in there nicely without being too tight
and bunching up okay we've got my needle
in thread so I'm going to put it through
the fabric from the back
on one side of the pins and bring it all
the way through and that not there
should hold it in place I might just put
my pins a little bit closer together
there okay going to put my needle
through the hole and getting started can
be a little bit awkward if I've used my
thumb and my finger just to hold the
button in place I'm going to aim to put
my needle through and get the thread to
come out on the other side of those
needles have those pins at the back
there okay and you just have to go by
field to get the needle back through the
original hole so I repeat these probably
about five to six times on either side
now if you want when you're creating the
shank I've seen some people hold a
toothpick on the top of the button you
could try that and I find it a bit
awkward so turn this way a little bit
easier for me if you wanted to create a
bigger shank I mean to put some extra
pins in see if that works for you
okay once I've done that five or six
times going to go over to the other side
now making sure I'll get my thread on
the other side of the pins there
you
okay now I can remove those pins and
next thing I'm going to do is just bring
my thread back through the fabric and
try and bring the needle out in between
the fabric and the button we're going to
wind my thread around the button maybe
four times do one more for good luck and
then we're going to push my needle back
through to the back of the fabric
okay then we're gonna hook my thread
under one of the other stitches there
that I've already done and then the next
couple of times before I pull it all the
way through see that you've got a bit of
a loop there at the end kind of put my
needle through the loop and just pull it
gently and that'll really help to secure
and anchor that thread in there
okay snip the excess thread off and then
you have it sewn on a button now you'll
notice I've used a contrasting thread
there just so you could see to be easier
but usually I try and match up the
thread with what's already on there if
you have any questions or comments about
this video then just leave them down
below I'd love to hear from you and if
you liked this video or found it helpful
then hit the thumbs up button thanks for
watching